Previously, you learned about signature-based
analysis. You also learned how to
read signatures used in network-based
intrusion detection systems.
Here, we'll use an open source signature-based
IDS called Suricata to examine
a signature.
Many NIDS technologies come with
pre-written signatures.
You can think of these signatures
as customizable templates.
Sort of like different templates
available in a word processor.
These signature templates provide you
with a starting point for writing and
defining your rules.
You can also write and add your own rules.
Let's examine a pre-written
signature through Suricata.
On this Linux machine running Ubuntu,
Suricata is already installed.
Let's examine some of its files by
changing directories to the etc directory
and into the suricata directory.
This is where all of Suricata's
configuration files live.
Next, we'll use the ls command to list
the contents of the suricata directory.
There's a couple of different files in
here, but we'll focus on the rules folder.
This is where the pre-written
signatures are.
You can also add custom signatures here.
We'll use the cd command followed by
the name of the folder to navigate to that
folder.
Using the ls command, we can observe that
the folder contains some rule templates
for different protocols and services.
Let's examine the custom.rules
file using the less command.
As a quick refresher, the less command
returns the content of a file
one page at a time which makes it easy to move
forward and backward through the content.
We'll use the arrow key to scroll up.
Lines that begin with a pound sign (#)
are comments meant to provide context for
those who read them and
are ignored by Suricata.
The first line says Custom rules
example for HTTP connection.
This tells us that this file contains
custom rules for HTTP connections.
We can observe that there's a signature.
The first word specifies
the signature's ACTION.
For this signature, the action is alert.
This means that the signature generates an
alert when all of the conditions are met.
The next part of
the signature is the HEADER.
It specifies the protocol http.
The source IP address is HOME_NET and
source port is defined as ANY.
The arrow indicates the direction of
traffic coming from the home network and
going to the destination IP address
EXTERNAL_NET and ANY destination port.
So far, we know that this signature
triggers an alert when it detects any HTTP
traffic leaving the home network and
going to the external network.
Let's examine the remainder of
the signature to identify if there's any
additional conditions
the signature looks for.
The last part of the signature
includes the RULE OPTIONS.
They're enclosed in parentheses and
separated by semicolons.
There's many options listed here, but
we'll focus on the message, flow, and
content options.
The message option will show the message
"GET on wire" once the alert is triggered.
The flow option is used to match on
direction of network traffic flow.
Here, it's established.
This means that a connection
has been successfully made.
The content option inspects
the content of a packet.
Here, between the quotation marks,
the text GET is specified.
GET is an HTTP request that's used to
retrieve and request data from a server.
This means the signature will match if
a network packet contains the text GET,
indicating a request.
To summarize, this signature alerts
anytime Suricata observes the text GET in
an HTTP connection from the home network,
going to the external network.
Every environment is different and
in order for
an IDS to be effective,
signatures must be tested and tailored.
As a security analyst,
you may test, modify, or
create IDS signatures to improve the
detection of threats in an environment and
reduce the likelihood of false positives.
Coming up,
we'll examine how Suricata logs events.
Meet you there.